---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

**Lesson #12:** Thinking outside of the box can help you find your way back in. I think what this lesson is saying is that if you’re struggling with something too much, it might be smart to take a step back, rethink the problem and come up with a different path to a solution. This can be applied to technical problems as well as any other life or project life cycle situations. I think this is a great lesson to live by, but I think it is easier said than done, especially when you’re caught up in a problem and see no end of the tunnel and still want to fix it.

**Lesson #13:** "Succinct and to the point.” Are magic words that writing and English teachers used to tell us in middle and high school. Lesson #13 from *The Cathedral and the Bazaar* essay means just that as it applies to source code. When code keeps getting simpler, organized, to the point and better, that proves the capability of the coder. I really like the quote “Perfection is achieved not when there is nothing more to add, but rather when there is nothing more to take away,” because it is so relevant to the world we live in today, where attention spans are extremely short and therefore content of any kind should be short and meaningful.

My favorite lesson from the *The Cathedral and the Bazaar* essay is lesson #1: "Every good work of software starts by scratching a developer’s personal itch.” I live by this lesson and I aim to build my career and my life by this exact way of thought. As I said in last week’s blog, when you do something you are passionate about, the chances of it becoming something successful and big are much higher than if you don’t care about it or are indifferent about it because you will feel the personal gratification of the accomplishment.  

__Personal progress on team project:__
My personal progress with the team project thus far has been on track to be successful and I am happy to say that we will accomplish more things than I initially expected. I have made a code contribution and had to learn about typescript and how to write it / translate regular javascript to typescript. We have been good as a team and our meetings have been productive. Our team communicates well and everyone is very responsive. I will be working on more typescript demos as well as some language translations (to Spanish), as it is on their top priorities list and it is an idea that Brandon pointed me to. 
