---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---


**Open Source** means transparency, collaboration, and an open community. Some advantages to open source projects are that various people can be working to attain a goal at the same time. A project that may take years for a single person to work on, can be completed in far less time if there are many contributors. Additionally, people can implement their own modifications and uses for some of the code functions. This can be good or bad, which brings me to the negatives of open source. Open source allows for anyone to view and essentially duplicate your code and modify it to whatever they like. While we hope that people will use code for “good” we cannot control people’s intentions and your code may be used to hack governments or banks (some of the worst cases). Additionally, with open source, it is hard to make a profit or even have a decent salary because a lot of it is experimental and until a project fully launches and works and gets recognized, investors and money-lenders are weary of investing. Time is valuable and open source projects, like any project takes time and effort that sometimes isn’t repaid in money. I enjoy working in teams and in a collaborative open space where we bounce ideas off of each other and I think in the computer science / engineering sector, open source software development fits that bill best. That is why I chose to take this class.

Open source projects I use regularly are duckduck go, wordpress, github, and Mozilla Firefox

**Duck Duck Go** is an open source alternative to google search. It is very encrypted and protects its users from cookies and from personal data exposure. I started using it when advertising was getting out of hand and google was one of the key sources of data to marketers.  

**Mozilla Firefox** is a web browser alternative to Google Chrome, Safari, Internet Explorer, and the like. I began using Firefox because it was faster than Safari and sometimes supported more sites and extensions that others. Pop-ups work on certain browsers and Mozilla is a good one.

**WordPress** is a blog-based website platform that is made easy to use for the average Joe. One doesn’t have to be a coder to create their own website and the assets and functions included are smooth and aesthetically pleasing. I find it is comparable to Wix but WordPress works a lot better and allows for more flexibility. In the e-commerce sector, WordPress is extremely useful, especially when companies don’t necessarily have the funds to invest in web developers to create a website from scratch. I used WordPress to dabble in site making when I was younger and I have always intended to start a blog but have yet to do so. I know I will use WordPress when I do... unless something better comes out this year.

**GitHub** is a brilliant example of an open source projects. It allows for open source projects to be seen. As a platform for open source, it is the inception of open source. I was exposed to github early in my college education, but I have only used it twice for group projects. I loved the experience of working together and notifying each other with pull requests, making the collaborative process much easier than a typical group message or email chain. The Agile approach to software development is made easy with Github in a coding community.
