---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---

**FREE vs OPEN ~SOFTWARE~**

References from,
Stallman, Richard. “Gnu.org.” [A GNU Head], www.gnu.org/philosophy/open-source-misses-the-point.html.

Free software is the original term used for free to use software: ‘free to run it, study it, change it, and redistribute copies with or without changes.’ Then came along a new fancier term, ‘open source.’ The open source software would be used as the new term for free software but it would mainly focus on reinforcing the potential business, power or monetary value of the ‘free’ software.

Definitions:
‘The published definition of free software by the free software community leaders (the free software foundation) goes: “Think of ‘free speech,’ not ‘free beer.”
For the free software movement, free software is an ethical imperative, essential respect for the users' freedom.’

“The term “open source” quickly became associated with ideas and arguments based only on practical values, such as making or having powerful, reliable software.” “The philosophy of open source considers issues in terms of how to make software “better”—in a practical sense only.” There are more defined terms with open source software, and the [full definition](https://opensource.org/osd) or requirements/guidelines of open source is a long list of mainly licensing and declarations that maintain that your software is open source and what rules pertain to your particular code for others who may want to use or contribute to it.

Similarities; The Rule(ish) / common ground
All released free software source code is open source, but not all open source software is necessarily free software, though most is. 


**Personal Progress towards the team project:**

We had a slight change in the project repository we will be working on officially. We will now be doing a more pointed/specific project still requiring us to learn React, but easier to contribute to: Material UI. Given this change, I had to install the new development environment for this project. I learned I had a problem with my computer, given my Mac OS is outdated, an error message is displayed when I attempt to download the dependencies reading “You are using macOS 10.10. We (and Apple) do not provide support for this old version.” I have to update my OS and fully install the dev environment, as soon as I can delete enough files to free up enough storage on my computer so I can download the newest mac os and restart my computer. In the meantime, this week I am looking at issues online (on the github as well as the listed communication channels) and with my group as a whole. Furthermore, I am taking some tutorials as I am learning how to use react as we go along. 
 
**The Cathedral and the Bazaar**

The two styles of development methods mentioned by Raymond in The Cathedral and The Bazaar are the conventional, closed source development or metaphorically the equivalence of the building of a ‘quiet, reverent cathedral’, in contrast to the more progressive open source development, taken on by the great Linus Torvalds which is metaphorically equivalent to the bustling movement of a bazaar, or a market-place. 

Building a cathedral happens with the following steps: ‘central planning, tight organization and one process from start to finish.’ In relation to handling bug reports and feature requests aka issues, the programmers in a closed source software development are constrained to having to create the issues and deal with the problems and sometimes lose focus and lose time they could be using to actually progress the big picture, the original idea. Moreover, with closed source development, sometimes other constraints can take priority to quality, or technical issues because deadlines, budgets, and other managerial urgencies arise.
In contrast, in open-source software development, similar to ‘a great babbling bazaar of differing agendas and approaches out of which a coherent and stable system could seemingly emerge only by a succession of miracles,’ these issues are solved by integrating the users of the software in the development process, or even letting these users build the system themselves. The more hands on deck, more progress is made efficiently. More exchange of ideas and more exchange of talent, time, and group effort, just like in a bazaar that is always busy. 
Personally, I prefer different things based on what kind of project I am working on. I think both have their pros and cons, but if I had to choose one to start a new small project with, I would choose the cathedral. Then when it becomes big and the guidelines are clearly stated, I would choose the bazaar. If I am pressured by time, I would definitely choose the bazaar. To have more helping hands would be much better in that case.

**I couldn’t choose just two so I wrote my top three favorite lessons from The Cathedral and The Bazaar” essay:**

- #1. Every good work of software starts by scratching a developer's personal itch.
I am a huge believer in the thinking model ‘when you work on something you’re passionate about, you’re ought to do a better job than if you’re working on something you don’t care about.’ This is why lesson number 1 talks to me personally. Passion projects can go a long way with a little luck and the right tools.

- #7. Release early. Release often. And listen to your customers.
Feedback is so important for anything you do that is intended to be released for public use. If you are building something for customers or users, the most logical way to find out if it will work and forge a likely path to success is by getting feedback from the very source of your potential success (your users/audience). 

- #11. The next best thing to having good ideas is recognizing good ideas from your users. Sometimes the latter is better.
When your own creative bone is failing, it may just mean you need to collaborate and get inspired by others. When you put minds together, great business partners can make an idea a reality. One can have the business or technical master plan while the other can plant the creative seed. One can have the idea and the other can play off the same idea, give it a twist and make it better. There is so much potential that comes from sharing ideas and stories with each other, as long as credit is given where credit is due, sharing is the best way to grow something.
