---
title: Week 6
---

**Open Source For Greater Good**

As mentioned in class, I agree that there is a negative stigma concerning data science and computer science that has been circulating the news in the past decade. I love the idea of balancing and even tipping the scale the complete other way by using open source software projects for social good with humanitarian goals in mind. Software development is an asset that should be used in responsible and beautiful ways, like finding solutions to health problems (or cancer) as well as dealing with natural disasters and massive international issues. I think it would be easier to get involved with a humanitarian open source project than to get involved with a well developed business/for profit oriented project because of the barriers of entry. When business is at the forefront of a project, like in anything in life, it gets in the way of the greater good sometimes, people’s egos and monetary worries tend to come on strong and while not always the case, many times it becomes harder for those businesses to be welcoming to newcomers. On the other hand, projects whose main purpose is to solve a humanitarian issue should be made to be as open and welcoming to others who truly want to help the cause because passion for a common goal is the leading factor. There is however the issue of locality and understanding that may get in the way of allowing someone to contribute to a certain project. For example, if there was a project aiming to solve the Venezuelan riots and political turmoil, the solving the issue of the people having no access to basic human resources, it may be hard for a complete outsider who doesn’t speak Spanish to communicate with the locals and their needs to make a perfect program that can source materials and try to distribute them.
I think it is great if one has time and is financially stable enough to be able to put effort into solving a humanitarian issue using software development tools. It should be well respected and to me, I would definitely see it as a prestigious thing to do for a contributor. I think it becomes a subjective matter because many businesses and entrepreneurs think in terms of assets and what will look better for their company and most companies won’t really care what kinds of projects you worked on, rather the skills you actually have learned, unless they need to work on their image.

As a newbie to open source projects, I don't think I would want to start off with social good projects because I think it would be more pressure to make sure I don't make mistakes since I am dealing with a real life crisis that is likely affecting human lives (health, and other serious life threatening events) and because I would want to contribute to something that would perhaps lead me to a paying job, to start.
