---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---

My team project is working on React. Since I do not have prior experience with the app, I have been doing some practices and beginner’s tutorials to familiarize myself with it. Furthermore, I, along with my teammates, have been searching the github for issues that may be accessible and easy to tackle based on our backgrounds. We discussed as a group that we could also look into more specific github projects within the react community that are made to create a new feature for react that is smaller and easier to contribute to...
I have also joined the communication channels to be more informed of current issues and progress of React. Next week, I intend on learning more about how React works and hopefully start to work on an issue that we all agree is doable.

I think Wikipedia is an excellent idea and the best kind of project because it thrives on the concept of collaboration and openness. People who contribute to Wikipedia are anyone who is interested in something. Regular, educated people like you and me could easily contribute to Wikipedia. A contributor for Wikipedia, like Jimmy Wales said in his Ted talk, is most likely someone who writes articles for a living, like a journalist or an educator.

I think there is no right answer to the question ‘what kind of people contribute to Wikipedia?’ because of the uniqueness of the site. The lack of prerequisites to contribute to Wikipedia makes it extremely easy for a smart, educated person on a matter to publish their article or comment on a topic.

I think it is possible that I will become a regular contributor when I am older, but not in the near future (post-grad). I think one must have spare time and be passionate about writing to want to become a regular contributor to a site that doesn’t pay. I will select the articles to contribute to for this class by choosing ones that speak about a topic I am knowledgable about and also interested in.

After watching the Jimmy Wales’s TED talk on the “Birth of Wikipedia” published in 2005, I believe he is extremely smart and capable of running Wikipedia. His ideas of the vision he had for Wikipedia were very much on par with what it has become. One of the things he mentioned at the end, about Wikibooks or free accessible online books becoming the next huge thing is outdated now but very accurate. While I had not heard of Wikibooks before, I do use online textbooks, pdfs and other resources to access content for my classes. Additionally, ebooks and the introduction of Amazon’s Kindle in 2007 have taken off tremendously, indirectly and directly causing many brick and mortar book stores to close.
